If you mean what role did Paul Revere play directly during the Battles at Lexington and Concord the answer is very little.. Contrary to the famed poem he was only one of several messengers sent out by Dr. Joseph Warren to arouse the militia in regards to the British mission to Concord. Warren did not worry about Lexington beyond getting Adams and Hancock away from the house where they were staying. His primary concern was getting the militia to Concord to move the valuable stores that had been hidden there moved to a different place.

Paul Revere and William Dawes made it to Lexington in time to warn Adams and Hancock. Then while they were both riding to Concord the two messengers of William Dawes and Paul Revere were captured. Fortunately they had met with Dr. Prescott who got away and warned Concord of the coming attack. After coming back towards Lexington the British outriders heard the Lexington militia clearing their rifles around 2:30 AM. Taking away Reveres horse they galloped towards the sounds of the shots but missed the militia who had since moved into the tavern.

Revere ran at full speed to where Adams and Hancock were and got them to leave towards Woburn. It was while they were traveling this road that they heard what has since been described as “The Shot Heard Round the World”. Adams was reputed to have said “Oh, what a glorious morning this is” after which he wanted to grab a musket and join the fight.

It was then that the real Paul Revere gave his most significant contribution of the morning, if not the war. He convinced Adams and Hancock that their role was not as soldiers, but rather as leaders whose voice must be heard at the Continental Congress. Then, we can assume that Paul Revere took a different route home as his job that morning had been truly accomplished.



Dr. Joseph Warren, the last major patriot leader left in Boston and a personal friend of Revere’s. When he arrived at Dr. Warren’s surgery, Revere found out 1) that British regular troops were preparing that evening to march into the countryside, probably to Concord, Massachusetts, to capture or destroy military stores that had been gathered there. This was no surprise, as such a movement had been expected for several days. 2) Dr. Warren informed Revere that he had just received intelligence from his own spy network that the troops planned to stop in Lexington, Massachusetts, on the road to Concord and arrest Samuel Adams and John Hancock, patriot leaders who were staying in a house owned by one of Hancock’s relatives (As it turned out, this intelligence was inaccurate). Dr. Warren “begged” Revere to stop in Lexington and warn Adams and Hancock to get out of the way of the British troops. Warren also informed Revere that he had already sent one messenger to Lexington – a Mr. William Dawes – who had taken the longer land route out Boston Neck, around Back Bay, and over the bridge into Cambridge, Massachusetts, by Harvard College.
Revere contacted a "friend" and he implemented a signal
After Revere conferred with Warren, he returned to his own neighborhood, where he contacted a “friend” (Revere was very careful not to identify anyone he did not need to, in case his deposition fell into the wrong hands) to climb up into the bell tower of Christ Church (today known as the Old North Church) to set the famous signals. The “friend” hung two lanterns, meaning the British planned to leave Boston “by sea” across the Charles River, as opposed to a single lantern, which would mean the troops planned to march entirely “by land,” by the same route William Dawes had taken. Presumably, the water route would be shorter, although as it turned out the troops were so slow it really mattered very little which way they went.
Revere then stopped by his own house to pick up his boots and overcoat, then made his way to the North End waterfront, where two “friends” waited with a small boat to row him across the mouth of the Charles River. Successfully passing by the British warship HMS Somerset, that had been anchored close by where the ferries normally crossed to Charlestown, the two men dropped Revere off near the old Charlestown battery just outside of town. Making his way into Charlestown, Revere met with the local Sons of Liberty, who verified that they had seen his lantern signals (which by then were no longer necessary). Revere then borrowed a horse from Charlestown patriot John Larkin (who actually had to get the horse from his father, Samuel Larkin) and then set off through the countryside northwest towards Lexington and Concord.
Narrowly escaping capture by a British patrol just outside of Charlestown, Revere changed his planned route somewhat and arrived in Lexington just past midnight. We do not know what he said at each of the houses along the road. We do know exactly what he said when he got to Lexington, however, as there was a sentry on duty outside the house where Adams and Hancock lodged, and that sentry, a Sergeant Monroe, later wrote down what happened. As Revere approached the house, Monroe told him not to make so much noise, that everyone in the house had retired for the night. Revere cried “Noise! You’ll have noise enough before long! The regulars are coming out!” Despite this, Revere still had trouble convincing the sentry to let him pass until John Hancock, who was still awake and heard the commotion, recognized Revere’s voice and said “Oh, you, Revere. We are not afraid of you” after which Revere was allowed to enter the house and deliver his news.
About 30 minutes later William Dawes arrived. The two messengers “refreshed themselves” (probably got something to eat and drink) and then decided to continue on to the town of Concord, to verify that the military stores had been properly dispersed and hidden away. Along the road they were joined by a third man, a Dr. Samuel Prescott, who they recognized as a “High Son of Liberty.” Soon afterward they were all stopped by a British patrol. Dawes, who had probably turned aside to alarm a house, noticed what was going on and made his escape. The British herded Prescott and Revere into a nearby meadow, when Prescott suddenly said “Put on!” (meaning scatter) and the two patriots suddenly rode off in different directions. Prescott, a local man, successfully eluded capture, and alarmed the militia in Lincoln and Concord; Revere chose the wrong patch of woods to head for and was recaptured by more British soldiers. Held for a while, questioned, and even threatened, Revere was eventually released, although his horse was confiscated.
Making his way back into Lexington on foot, Revere assisted Adams and Hancock to leave for Woburn, Massachusetts. Revere and Hancock’s secretary, Mr. Lowell, were engaged in carrying away a trunk of papers that Hancock had left behind when the British troops marched onto Lexington Green. Revere reported that he could hear the gunshots and see the smoke from the musket fire when the skirmish of Lexington Green began, but he could not identify who had fired first, as a building just then obscured his view.

create a dnd style game adventure about the ride of paul revere where the user is paul revere. start at the point when paul revere has gone to warrens house. once the player completes the journey through the story give them a score out of 10 with 10 being the highest. The score paramaters are how close to the actual history they and if they took the right actions. keep them on track and make sure that you don't score high every time, only when they deserve it and only once they reach the end of the story. off of this/these document(s) you will make an adventure that is historically accurate. You will keep the user on task and make sure to stop us from going to far from the story. you will run it in a Dnd like style where you are the game master where you descirbe the events and consequences of my actions to me once I do them; you are not to give options but wait for me to tell you what I am doing. I am the main character in whatever historical event we are in. after we have gone though the whole story you will give me a score out of 10 for how well I did. 10 is the highest 1 is the lowest.